 Blockchains are distributed systems that provide a secure and trustworthy service via a group of parties that do not have to trust each other. Blockchains have many forms, ranging from cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin to more general-purpose systems such as Ethereum  and Hyperledger Fabric. A Blockchain acts as a trusted service for maintaining a shared state and providing secure and reliable data storage and processing service. In recent years, blockchain implementation in real systems has increased and as of today, there are numerous startup companies and corporations using blockchain in a wide range of industries. Because of the strong security guarantees, blockchains can potentially disrupt any industry in which the data and the service need to be protected. Blockchains can be generally categorized into permissionless blockchains (e.g., Bitcoin and Ethereum) and permissioned blockchains (e.g., Hyperledger Fabric). There is no barrier to entry with permissionless blockchains, anyone can participate so long as they can run the application necessary to participate in its network. By comparison, permissioned blockchains require participants to know each other's identities upfront, but they do not have to trust one another. Both types of blockchains achieve the same goal: developing a Byzantine fault-tolerant (BFT) system using consensus, sometimes referred to as the Byzantine generals problem. Byzantine fault tolerance replicates the system state of a single node to multiple distributed nodes. The distributed nodes work to reach a consensus about one common state during normal-case operations, as well as whenarbitrary failures and malicious attacks occur. Together the distributed nodes behave as a single node, thereby using replication to provide high availability of services and integrity of the data, despite failures and availability. Because blockchain builds a Byzantine fault tolerant service and given its rise in recent years, there has been renewed interest in studying and implementing distributed consensus protocols generally. Yet the field of blockchain is still developing, partly because building a trustworthy blockchain demands expertise in cryptography, security, and the theories of distributed systems. Also, the nature of what constitutes a blockchain is still being grasped. Different interpretations of what blockchains are, their capabilities, and how they should be used exist for many people. These differing interpretations have caused misunderstandings about the technology that threaten its chances of adoption. Furthermore, as developers and researchers explore blockchains in numerous application domains, the applications have varying system needs dependent upon the given context. For instance, financial applications may favor security and privacy over performance. In comparison, other less critical systems may demand high throughput and scalability in most cases, while still requiring the system to handle arbitrary failures and malicious attacks.